docs(rocke): refresh rocKE architecture foundations (#9764)
ROCm/rocm-libraries: dnn-providers/hip-kernel-provider/rocke/platform/dsl_docs/architecture/authoring_model.md

  -> manifest / runtime metadata
```

Every shipped platform instance in `python/rocke/instances/` follows this exact

> shape. Product/workload kernels owned by the library use the same platform

Reviewer: this is not related to the authoring model. There can be several kernel libraries outside of rocke/platform which is not a concern for the authoring model.

Author: Addressed in the bounded Stage 1 rewrite. The authoring model no longer discusses ownership of external kernel libraries; it stays scoped to the rocKE platform authoring layers.

building blocks under `../library/kernels/`. The shared platform scaffolding
lives in `python/rocke/helpers/spec.py` (`IOSpecRule`, `validate_io`,
`SignatureBuilder`, `kernel_name_join`, `ceil_div_grid`).

## Kernel Authoring And Optimization Outputs

New kernel authoring means producing a reusable builder, not just a one-off
script. Reusable platform mechanisms belong under
`python/rocke/instances/<arch>/` or `python/rocke/instances/common/` as

> spec-driven builders. Product/workload kernels belong under

Reviewer: Reusable platform mechanics does not belong under rocke/instances. There is some hallucination here. 
Instances are kernel instances- both arch specific, and common. Resuable code lies under helpers, or core modules of the platform.

Author: Addressed in the bounded Stage 1 rewrite. instances/ is described as complete kernel instances, while reusable authoring mechanics belong in helpers/ and foundational IR, analysis, and lowering mechanisms belong in core/.

```

Path notation in this page is relative to three explicitly named roots:

```text
<project_root>  = the rocKE component root containing platform/ and library/
<platform_root> = <project_root>/platform
<library_root>  = <project_root>/library
```

These placeholders describe source locations; Python import names are called
out separately where they differ.

Matrix-operation choices start from the exact gfx target. Resolve
`ArchTarget.from_gfx(...)`, select an `MmaOp` from that target's `MmaCatalog`,
and validate the operation's wave and layout contract. The exact catalog is
listed in [`kernel_taxonomy.md`](./kernel_taxonomy.md).

Kernel definitions in `<platform_root>/python/rocke/instances/` and
`<library_root>/kernels/` follow the same operation-to-runtime progression.
Reusable authoring mechanics belong in
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/helpers/`; foundational IR, analysis, and lowering
mechanisms belong in `<platform_root>/python/rocke/core/`. For example, the
shared spec scaffolding lives in
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/helpers/spec.py` (`IOSpecRule`, `validate_io`,
`SignatureBuilder`, `kernel_name_join`, `ceil_div_grid`).

## Kernel Authoring And Optimization Outputs

> New kernel authoring means producing a spec-driven kernel definition, not just

Author: ```suggestion
Kernel authoring means producing a spec-driven kernel definition, avoid producing
```

a one-off script. Kernel definitions compose reusable mechanisms from

> `rocke.helpers` and `rocke.core`; they do not turn an instance directory into a

Author: ```suggestion
`rocke.helpers` and `rocke.core`; the instance directory must not be treated as a
```

reusable-code layer. Any change that affects emitted IR must include its
matching C++ mirror and byte-identity coverage in the same change.

Kernel optimization means a reproducible recipe plus a chosen implementation. If
an AI-assisted session finds a better tile, schedule, prefetch, split,
vectorization, or other lever, capture both the final code path and the evidence
that justified it.

Put experiments in the example folder for the kernel being studied.
Keep benchmark scripts, shape files, qualitative mechanism notes, and
case-study methods close to the workload, for example under
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/examples/<arch>/<kernel_or_workload>/`. Keep
measured values, generated traces, and large logs outside the source tree in an
AMD-approved, access-controlled record with the revision, toolchain, gfx target,
shape set, and replay command.

Document every accepted optimization as a public qualitative case study. Describe
the workload shape class, candidate levers, commands, selected mechanism, rejected

> mechanisms, and target constraints without publishing measured values or comparative

Author: ```suggestion
mechanisms, and target constraints, *never* publishing measured values or comparative
```

backend, operation-layout, geometry, and validator support. The listed gfx9 targets
cannot select wave32, and gfx1250 cannot select wave64. Wave mode must not be inferred
from the matrix-operation column, or vice versa.

Every platform-owned kernel instance in
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/instances/` follows this
shape. An instance is a complete kernel definition, either shared across
targets under `<platform_root>/python/rocke/instances/common/` or specialized
under `<platform_root>/python/rocke/instances/<arch>/`. Library-owned kernels,
including attention, live under `<library_root>/kernels/` and follow the same
operation-to-runtime progression without belonging to the platform instance
tree. Reusable authoring mechanics belong in
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/helpers/`; foundational IR, analysis, and lowering
mechanisms belong in `<platform_root>/python/rocke/core/`. For example, the
shared spec scaffolding lives in
`<platform_root>/python/rocke/helpers/spec.py` (`IOSpecRule`, `validate_io`,
`SignatureBuilder`, `kernel_name_join`, `ceil_div_grid`).

## Kernel Authoring And Optimization Outputs

> New platform kernel authoring means producing a spec-driven kernel instance,

Reviewer: we don't need to separate out the rules for platform kernel vs library kernel. Eventually we will have a single library of kernels. Platform will just be helpers + core + runtime + docs.

Author: Addressed in `bc10d88de854`. The authoring model no longer defines separate rules for platform and library kernels. Both current source locations now follow the same operation-to-runtime progression, reusable authoring mechanisms remain under `helpers` and `core`, and the README and architecture index use the same model.

block_z = b.block_id_z()
```

> The literal `64` is required for this gfx9 example, not a runtime choice or MFMA

Reviewer: i didn't get why we need this about literal `64`

Author: Addressed in `bc10d88de854`. The coordinate example now obtains the compile-time wave size from the resolved target. The literal `64` justification and the related repeated wave-versus-MMA explanation were removed.
